Sometime after the defeat of Majin Buu, peace has returned to Earth. Goku has settled down and works as a farmer to support 
his family. His family and friends live peaceful lives.[4] However, a new threat appears in the form of the God of Destruction 
named Beerus, who is considered to be the most terrifying and the second most powerful being in Universe Seven. 
After awakening from decades of slumber, Beerus tells his Angel assistant and teacher named Whis that he is eager to 
fight the legendary warrior whom he had seen in a prophecy known as the Super Saiyan God (Sūpā Saiya-jin Goddo).[5] 
To protect Earth, Goku transforms into the Super Saiyan God to fight Beerus by using the power of five Super Saiyans, 
which includes Vegeta, Gohan, Goten, Trunks, and the baby named Pan in Videl's womb. Despite losing, Goku's efforts 
appease the God of Destruction enough that he decides to spare the planet.
While Goku and Vegeta leave with Beerus and Whis to train for a year, the remaining remnants of Frieza's army arrive 
on Earth in search for the Dragon Balls to revive Frieza. A few months after coming back to life and training, Frieza 
gathers his forces and returns to enact his revenge on Goku. Despite achieving a new transformation, he is defeated by 
Goku and Vegeta, who have both mastered the Super Saiyan God Super Saiyan transformation. Frieza blows up the Earth in 
retaliation. However, with Whis's ability to manipulate time, Goku is able to destroy Frieza once again.
Champa, Beerus' brother and the God of Destruction of Universe Six, convinces Beerus to hold a tournament between the best 
fighters from each god's universe for the possession of Earth. Goku and his friends join the tournament. Each match in the 
tournament shows different surprises and abilities. The tournament reaches its climax in the second-to-last match between 
Goku and Hit. After a failed attempt to lift the rules to face Hit in his full power, Goku forfeits the match. However, 
Hit forfeits the final match since he was inspired by Goku to do the same thing. The tournament concludes with Universe 
Seven's victory.
Goku later meets and befriends Present Grand Zenō, who is the king and emperor of all universes. Goku promises to bring 
him a friend to play with. Later, Future Trunks reappears and brings bad news of a new and powerful enemy that is a 
counterpart of Goku, who is known as Goku Black. Goku and the others eventually discover that Goku Black is actually a 
Supreme Kai apprentice from Universe Ten named Zamasu, who hijacked Goku's body from a different world as part of his plan 
to attain immortality and wipe out all mortals.[6] In the end after a long ultimate battle, Zamasu is erased from existence 
along with the entire future world by Future Grand Zenō, who accompanies Goku back to his world. Goku fulfills his promise to 
Present Grand Zenō by introducing him to his future self. 
Some time after Future Trunks returns home, Present Grand Zenō and Future Grand Zenō hold a new tournament called the 
Tournament of Power. At Goku's suggestion, the multiverse tournament features teams of fighters from eight of the twelve 
universes. However, it becomes a battle for survival when both kings declare that the universes defeated at the tournament 
will be erased.[7] Goku, Vegeta, Gohan, Krillin, Android 17, Android 18, Piccolo, Tien, Master Roshi, and a revived Frieza 
join the tournament as representatives for Universe Seven to protect it. The Universe Seven team must battle against many 
formidable warriors from the other universes such as Universe Eleven's Pride Trooper leader named Jiren. During the fight, 
Goku briefly attains a new godly form known as Ultra Instinct which increases his agility and power and allows him to 
simultaneously attack and dodge without having to think of the latter.[8] The tournament ends with Goku and Frieza taking 
Jiren down along with themselves, which leaves Android 17 as the last remaining fighter and the winner of the Tournament of Power. 
He is awarded one wish from the Super Dragon Balls, which he uses to restore all of the erased universes. The Grand Minister 
revealed that Present Grand Zenō and Future Grand Zenō expected the universes to be restored. If the wish was used for selfish 
purposes then Present Grand Zenō and Future Grand Zenō would have erased all of existence. For his efforts in the Tournament 
of Power, Frieza is fully revived and rebuilds his army. Goku and his friends return to their daily lives on Earth. While 
sparring, Goku reveals to Vegeta that he is unable to activate Ultra Instinct again. Goku and Vegeta pledge to get even 
stronger and become more powerful.
Production
In addition to his role as the series creator, Akira Toriyama is also credited for the "original story and character 
design concepts" of the new anime originally directed by Kimitoshi Chioka.[3] Toriyama elaborated on his involvement 
with the "Future Trunks arc" saying he created the story based on suggestions from the editorial department, "As with last time, 
I wrote the overall plot outline, and the scriptwriters have been compiling and expanded the story content into individual 
episodes, making various changes and additions, and generally doing their best to make the story more interesting."[9] 
In addition to new characters designed by Toriyama, other characters for the "Universe Survival arc" were designed by 
Toyotarou, artist of the manga version, and a few by both.[10] Toei Animation producer Atsushi Kido previously worked 
on Dragon Ball Z for a brief time during the Freeza arc, while Fuji TV producer Osamu Nozaki said he has been a fan of 
the series since childhood.[11] Morio Hatano, series director of Saint Seiya Omega (episodes #1–51), began sharing the 
series director credit with Chioka beginning with episode #33, before taking it over completely with #47. From episode #68 to #76, 
Morio Hatano shared the role of series director with Kōhei Hatano (no relation), another storyboard artist and episode director 
for the series. Masako Nozawa reprises her roles as Son Goku, Son Gohan, and Son Goten.[3] Most of the original cast 
reprise their roles as well.[6][12] However, Jōji Yanami's roles as Kaiō-sama and the narrator were indefinitely taken 
over by Naoki Tatsuta as of episode 12, so that Yanami could take medical leave.[13] Kōichi Yamadera and Masakazu Morita 
also return as Beerus and Whis, respectively.[12]
The first preview of the series aired on June 14, 2015, following episode 164 of Dragon Ball Z Kai.[14] The next day, 
the main promotional image for Dragon Ball Super was added to its official website and unveiled two new characters,[12] 
who were later revealed to be named Champa and Vados, respectively.[15] A thirty-second trailer including the new characters 
was uploaded to the series' official website on June 26, 2015.[16] On January 19, 2018, it was revealed that Super's timeslot 
will be replaced with GeGeGe no Kitarō starting on April 1, 2018. According to Amazon Japan, the final Blu-ray set indicated 
the series' end at episode 131.[17] The series ended on March 25, 2018, with the conclusion of the "Universe Survival Saga". 
Fuji TV stated that no definite plans were made to either continue the series at a later date or discontinue it entirely.[18]
English production and broadcasting
Dragon Ball Super received an English-language dub that premiered on the Toonami channel in Southeast Asia and India on 
January 21, 2017. This dub is produced by Los Angeles based Bang Zoom! Entertainment for the Asian market. A sneak preview 
of the English dub's first episode aired on December 17, 2016.[19] Production on the Bang Zoom! dub ended after episode 27.[20][21] 
On November 4, 2016, Funimation announced the company acquired the rights to Dragon Ball Super and would be producing an English 
dub, with many cast members of their previous English-language releases of Dragon Ball media reprising their respective roles. 
As well as officially announcing the dub, it was also announced they would be simulcasting the series on their streaming 
platform, FunimationNow.[22][23] On December 7, 2016, IGN reported that the Funimation English dub of Dragon Ball Super 
would air on Adult Swim Saturdays at 8 p.m. with an encore showing in their Toonami block later that night at 11:30 p.m. 
starting on January 7, 2017.[24] This was later confirmed on Toonami's official Facebook page.[25] The United States 
premiere of Dragon Ball Super obtained 1,063,000 viewers for its 8 p.m. showing on Adult Swim.[26]
The English-subtitled simulcast of Dragon Ball Super was made available in North America and Europe through Crunchyroll 
and Daisuki.[27] Following the closure of Daisuki, the hosted Dragon Ball Super episodes were transferred to the Dragon 
Ball Super Card Game website in February 2018.[28]
Toonami Africa started airing Dragon Ball Super in Fall 2017 at 15:00 CAT (Central African Time) with an edited Funimation 
English Dub. In Australia, ABC Me started airing Dragon Ball Super on November 3, 2018, with a new episode every 
Saturday at 2:45 pm.
Music
"Chōzetsu☆Dynamic!"
Sample of "Chōzetsu☆Dynamic!" performed by Kazuya Yoshii, the opening theme song for the first 76 episodes of the show.
Problems playing this file? See media help.
Norihito Sumitomo, the composer for Battle of Gods and Resurrection 'F', is scoring Dragon Ball Super.[29] An original 
soundtrack for the anime was released on CD by Nippon Columbia on February 24, 2016.[30]
The first opening theme song for episodes 1 to 76 is "Chōzetsu☆Dynamic!" (Chōzetsu Dainamikku, "Excellent Dynamic!") 
by Kazuya Yoshii of The Yellow Monkey. The lyrics were penned by Yukinojo Mori who has written numerous songs for the 
Dragon Ball series.[31] The second opening theme song for episodes 77 to 131 is "Genkai Toppa × Survivor" 
("Limit Breakthrough × Survivor") by enka singer Kiyoshi Hikawa. Mori wrote the lyrics for the rock song, while 
Takafumi Iwasaki composed the music.[32][33]
The first ending theme song for episodes 1 to 12 is "Hello Hello Hello" (Harō Harō Harō) by Japanese rock band Good 
Morning America.[31] The second ending theme song for episodes 13 to 25 is "Starring Star" (Sutāringu Sutā) by the group 
Key Talk.[34] The singer for Funimation's English dub is Professor Shyguy.[35] The third ending song for episodes 26 to 36 
is "Usubeni" ("Light Pink") by the band Lacco Tower. The fourth ending theme song for episodes 37 to 49 is 
"Forever Dreaming" by Czecho No Republic.[36] The fifth ending theme song for episodes 50 to 59 is "Yokayoka Dance" 
(Yokayoka Dansu, "It's Fine Dance") by idol group Batten Showjo Tai.[37] The sixth ending theme song for episodes 60 to 72 
is "Chao Han Music" (MUSIC Chāhan Myūjikku) by Arukara.[38] The seventh ending theme song for episodes 73 to 83 is 
"Aku no Tenshi to Seigi no Akuma" ("Evil Angel and Righteous Devil") by The Collectors.[39] The eighth ending theme 
song for episodes 84 to 96 is "Boogie Back" by Miyu Inoue.[40][41] The ninth ending theme song for episodes 97 to 108 is 
"Haruka" by Lacco Tower.[42] The tenth ending theme song for episodes 109 to 121 is "70cm Shiho no Madobe" 
("By a 70cm Square Window") by RottenGraffty.[43][44] The eleventh ending theme song for episodes 122 to 131 is 
"Lagrima" by OnePixcel.