The word anime is the Japanese term for animation, which means all forms of animated media.
Outside Japan, anime refers specifically to animation from Japan or as a Japanese-disseminated animation style often 
characterized by colorful graphics, vibrant characters and fantastical themes.The culturally abstract approach 
to the word's meaning may open up the possibility of anime produced in countries other than Japan.
For simplicity, many Westerners strictly view anime as a Japanese animation product.
Some scholars suggest defining anime as specifically or quintessentially Japanese may be related to a new form of Orientalism.
The earliest commercial Japanese animation dates to 1917, and Japanese anime production has since continued to increase 
steadily. The characteristic anime art style emerged in the 1960s with the works of Osamu Tezuka and spread internationally 
in the late twentieth century, developing a large domestic and international audience. Anime is distributed theatrically, 
by way of television broadcasts, directly to home media, and over the Internet. It is classified into numerous genres 
targeting diverse broad and niche audiences.
Anime is a diverse art form with distinctive production methods and techniques that have been adapted over time in 
response to emergent technologies. It consists of an ideal story-telling mechanism, combining graphic art, 
characterization, cinematography, and other forms of imaginative and individualistic techniques. 
The production of anime focuses less on the animation of movement and more on the realism of settings as well as 
the use of camera effects, including panning, zooming, and angle shots. Being hand-drawn, anime is separated from 
reality by a crucial gap of fiction that provides an ideal path for escapism that audiences can immerse themselves 
into with relative ease.[8] Diverse art styles are used and character proportions and features can be quite varied, 
including characteristically large emotive or realistically sized eyes.
The anime industry consists of over 430 production studios, including major names like Studio Ghibli, Gainax, 
and Toei Animation. Despite comprising only a fraction of Japan's domestic film market, anime makes up a majority 
of Japanese DVD sales. It has also seen international success after the rise of English-dubbed programming. 
This rise in international popularity has resulted in non-Japanese productions using the anime art style. 
Whether these works are anime-influenced animation or proper anime is a subject for debate amongst fans.
Anime is an art form, specifically animation, that includes all genres found in cinema, but it can be mistakenly 
classified as a genre. Japanese, the term anime is used as a blanket term to refer to all forms of animation from 
around the world. In English, anime is more restrictively used to denote a "Japanese-style animated film or television 
entertainment" or as "a style of animation created in Japan". The etymology of the word anime is disputed.
The English term "animation" is written in Japanese katakana as animēshon, Japanese pronunciation: [animeːɕoɴ]) and is (anime) 
in its shortened form. The pronunciation of anime in Japanese differs from pronunciations in other languages such as 
Standard English, which has different vowels and stress with regards to Japanese, where each mora carries equal stress. 
As with a few other Japanese words such as saké, Pokémon, and Kobo Abé, English-language texts sometimes spell anime as animé 
(as in French), with an acute accent over the final e, to cue the reader to pronounce the letter, not to leave it silent 
as Standard English orthography may suggest. Some sources claim that anime derives from the French term for animation 
dessin animé, but others believe this to be a myth derived from the French popularity of the medium in the late 1970s and 1980s. 
In English, anime—when used as a common noun—normally functions as a mass noun. (For example: "Do you watch anime?" or 
"How much anime have you collected?") Prior to the widespread use of anime, the term Japanimation was prevalent throughout 
the 1970s and 1980s. In the mid-1980s, the term anime began to supplant Japanimation. In general, the latter term now 
only appears in period works where it is used to distinguish and identify Japanese animation. The word anime has also been 
criticised, e.g. in 1987, when Hayao Miyazaki stated that he despised the truncated word anime because to him it 
represented the desolation of the Japanese animation industry. He equated the desolation with animators lacking motivation 
and with mass-produced, overly expressionistic products relying upon a fixed iconography of facial expressions and 
protracted and exaggerated action scenes but lacking depth and sophistication in that they do not attempt to convey 
emotion or thought.